---
tags:
  - Type/MOC
aliases:
  - Building a Second Brain
---
up:: [[00 - Home|Home]]
___
# PARA
The [[0 - PARA|PARA]] (Projects, Areas, Resources, and Archives) method was developed by [[Tiago Forte]] to help *organise information from most actionable to least actionable*. There are other frameworks such as [[0 - ACCESS|ACCESS]] which may take advantage of Obsidian specific capabilities compared to other note taking apps such as [[Evernote]] but since the PARA method is more universally used there is a lot more content on how to implement it so that is my reasoning. I have, however, implemented a modified version of the PARA framework. 
# CODE Method for writing notes
The [[0 - CODE Method|CODE Method]] (Capture, Organize, Distill, Express) was also developed by [[Tiago Forte]] to make the process of capturing and processing notes better. 
# My modifications to PARA
I have implemented a modified version of the PARA system. I have a section for what makes [[Obsidian]] such a great tool called MOCs which stands for [[Maps of Content]]. Think of it as an Atlas for all the big topics that you want to group together and easily traverse. 
I also have a section for 
## Permanent notes

## Inbox
In which I keep fleeting notes or things I just want to capture but either don't have time for or don't want to work on right now and it is not obvious where the created notes belong (yet). They are meant to be temporary and then fleshed out. 
## Periodic notes
at first I had these in the Resources folder but I pulled them out as from my previous experiences I found that I built everything around my Daily and Weekly notes. This felt like it warranted its own main folder. 
## Meetings
Since I this vault will mainly be used for work-related items I had a massive amount of meetings. They were previously kept in separate category folders but I want to have a more bottom up and chronological approach so now they are automatically tagged appropriately and placed in autogenerated folders according to the year and week they took place. I had some ideas of using months but since weeks can span over months and work is more clearly divided into weeks this is the approach I chose. 
## Meta
This is the folder where mainly Templates are stored. But there is also an attachments folder. I had some ideas of keeping people, companies, i.e., "Note references" in this folder. 
# Obsidian note taking
- [[Links vs Tags]]
- [[Periodic notes documentation|Periodic notes]]
- [[My templates]]
- 